The Russian state is heavily fractured by the defeat in 2028. But as Russian history shows, even if it went from worst even worse, Russia will continue. In many ways the modern Russian state resembles a "Network State". The country resembles a corporation with varying interest groups acting as shareholders. Quickly, the military and intelligence apparatus find ways to turn instability into an advantage. All functions of state is to some extent privatized, international agencies can purchase a motor-rifle battalion the same way they purchase an offshore oil rig. Much of GRU, FSB and other intelligence services have degenerated into transnational criminal enterprises. However, such transition also helps to smoothen the foreign relationships. Why sanction the Russians when you can have them fighting for you? 
The ISIS establishment of Central Asia Caliphate marked the "rehabilitation" of the Russian state. Politicians in the west found Russian PMCs to be a much more expedient service. Why risk our own boys when you can send a Russian boy to be eviscerated by roadside IEDs? Such was the rationale. Quickly, the west began turning a blind eye on what is happening in Central Asia. What would spark mass protests years ago is now tacitly approved. 
By the year before De Kuiper, the Russian military and intelligence apparatuses has become the common commodity of violence. A superpower for hire for whoever willing to pay the price. The Sino-American war spillover in Africa has caused massive refugee crisis, and now French and Russians are jointly pursuing "a strategy of death" in subsaharan Africa. Details of some "Cleaning Operations" are kept secret. 
Of course, some are "unhappy" with the arrangement. Men who killed and bled for a stronger Russia, they witnessed their dream dying once again. Most of them died of suicide or alcohol poisoning, but some forged alliances with more "extreme" parties. It is observed that actors such as Iranian Quds Force and Chinese Ministry Of State Security has been harboring these "Old Guards". But overall, such "Old Guards" are nothing but a shell of the former Russian state with a delusion of grandeur. 
The devastation brought by De Kuiper allowed for many novel oppotunities. Russian PMCs are now operating around California. Worse, it is believed that some GRU/FSB members have forged a pact with Mexican cartels and began acting as enablers and advisors for their operations. But contrary to popular belief, the majority of the PMCs and criminal enterprises are completely motivated by monetary gains, they would gladly fight on the US side if the price is right. 
Goal: exploit the oppotunity to gain more influence and result.
