Tasked with the stealing of US secrets lost in California
They were so close to winning... If only they could moblize faster, make more daring assaults, or simply just hold longer. But no matter what, China had lost the war for Taiwan. Young men were sent from treacherous shore onto hails of enemy fire. After establishing the beachheads with relatively little cost, they were then sent to the concrete hellscapes of Taichung, Taipei and many other cities. From next-generation drones to bayonets, all were used to kill and maim. Autonomous drones loitered the sky and ocean for preys. The drums of war and sacrifice consume men in the hundreds. The months of bitter combat eventually stripped whatever humanity left in the soliders. Atrocities remincient of those perpetuated by the Japanese during World War Two are conducted sproadically. The island is a cauldron for barbarians, where men see their hearts of darkness. The naval balance eventually turned to American favor, and with that, tens of thousands of men are trapped on the island, fighting to their death. All that's left of the Eastern Theater of PLA is several battered and bloodied brigades. 
With the army gone, so did the economy. The cyber infrastructure was obliterated along with a significant portion of communications. Domestic autarky in modern times is an impossible task, the civil society suffer tremendously. Order quickly broke down after defeat, lootings and riots become commonplace. Inflation began to parallel that of the Weimar Republic. The export-oriented economy of China is ill-suited for a long war, a blind worship of the concept of "total war" only excerbates such problem. By the end of 2029, Chinese economy resembled the ruins its war machines has created. 
Before the collapse, foreigners once named the Chinese social control system as Orwellian, but in reality, such system could not last a week without constant injection of fund. As the economy crumbles, so did law and order. After decades of relative prosperity, the average Chinese citizen has taken law and order as granted. The winter of 2029 served as a rude awakening into the horrifying new world of violence. Worse, the CCP's propaganda arm is forced to "withdraw" from the narrative war online. With the narrative war lost, the youngsters began to doubt what they are told. 
Despair gripped every echelon of power. Everyone remember what happened at the end of Soviet Union. Some also remember the end of Yugoslavia. The first to act were several angry and desperate officers at the army command. Their ill-fated coup was a disaster, at the end of the day they are quickly wiped out. However, by sheer luck or misfortune, the chairman was killed by the first shots of the rebellion. After the failed coup, the power is once again stablized by the old guards electing replacements and so the facade of order continued for another year. MSS instigated a purge against the army and gained new powers due to their loyalty.
However, after witnessing the chaos that threatens to end the state, the men of MSS decide to act. The state's future hangs on a knife edge, China must not fall. The coup of 2030 quickly achieved all their objectives, opponents are quickly shot, arrested or outright dissappeared. Well prepared PAP units went all over China and began seizing objectives. The army leadership is quickly absorbed into the MSS framework, all seems to be going well. However, the conspirators quickly found themselves to be in the middle of an uprising: dissatisfied populace has risen up. All over the capital, protestors began waving signs, throwing molotovs and engaging in street brawls. The MSS paramilitaries proved to be too few to control the situation. The decision to open fire quickly turns the protests into full on uprisings. It seems like their last gambit has put in the last nail in the coffin of the country they swore to protect. 
Frenzied, the command ordered the last resort: a full combined arms assault to "restore order by all means necessary". Tanks blasted through street barricades, helicopters inserted airmobiles onto vital objectives, an hour later, the uprising is largely quelled. Unfortunately, the discipline of the soldiers broke down once again. The operation quickly turns into an organized chaos where soldiers used indiscriminate fire against everyone and everything. Civilians butchered in the streets, bodies are piled together and crushed by tank tracks, an eerie silence set in all over the capital, with intermittent gunshots breaking the peace. It quickly became some of the most notorious massacres of the 21st century.
Worse, it was just the beginning. The outburst of violence opened a valve of brutality in the MSS operations, thousands are purged overnight, more are hunted down and shot by fanatic militias allied to government. Worse, families are now fair play for the power struggles. There is no rule for violence, and no room for civility. But all the brutality serve a purpose. With the purges of party officials and businessman, their assets are seized by the state, which in turn enables a greater deal of autarky. The massacres also gave birth to a sect of fanatical pro-government militants, who quickly gained the role of a paramilitary death squad. The mass murders served a purpose, the state is safe, for now. 
Ironically, despite basing their entire belief on that the west is bent on the destruction of the Chinese state and race, the west is in fact wary towards a collapse scenario. Even as US is struggling with crime and instability, large quantities of material assistance was tacitly given to the new regime to carry out their bloody works. Inside the regime however, the men were not satisified to just holding the line. They want revenge. 
Inside the polibureau, technocrats who survived the purge found themselves tasked with the burden to keep the economy afloat. As these shivering men went for the specifics of this impossible task, they found all the resources are diverted for something "of greater importance". In the end, all they could do is to apply a bandaid to the slit artery that is Chinese economy. The regime would end soon, and so would China. 
When De Kuiper struck, MSS finally had the oppotunity to make the great gambit. The stake being the entire Chinese race, and the reward being the total domination of the world. They will win this gambit. The Ministry is desperate, and that makes them dangerous. Most of their operatives are fanatics hardened by Taiwan war and will most certainly prefer going down with their enemies. Most of their men uses PLA styled structure and equipment. Howwever, MSS is know for utilizing defectors from Russian intelligence service with ultranationalist beliefs.
MSS do not waste time on anomalous scraps, every operation they undertook will significantly alter the global situation. Driven by such determination, they are willing to forge pact with absolutely any entity if it suits their purposes. Their unscrupulous approach also means a more flexible allegiance than most. 
Notes for GM: MSS is supposed to be the most desperate faction, they are racing against a clock. A GM should try to make the players feel like they are fighting against a ticking time bomb. Another important part about MSS is that they can form very strange and dangerous alliances. They may even attempt to ally with Erlkonig if it suits their objective
