
California state bankruptcy
The rippling of the biggest cities going under is shaking a fragile economy
20% public servant layoffs
Collapse of businesses

The decade is widely remembered as a time of crime, violence, lawlessness, disorder, graffiti-covered subways, inflation, unemployment, and budgets completely out of control—an era of social breakdown, economic malaise, and political collapse. Of course, the state was always thought to be like that, long before bankruptcy videos have shown the increasing crime, homelessness and more. But back then all of these are the "natural" result of a shift in economy towards high tech sector. But everything changed in 2028, after the disasters on both sides during the campaign for Taiwan, waves of cyberattack are conducted with the ruthlessness of the strategic bombers of the last world war. The internet collapsed, multiple times. Electrical grids are knocked out en masse, leaving tens of thousands of civilians without electricity. Hundreds of emergency patients died that way. 

Unable to pay for its bills, the state finally declared bankruptcy. Public servants are fired, cities become overrun with crimes, and the state government has lost whatever prestige it once had. A mass exodus of LA occured in 2030, when a collapse the water pipeline left the entire city without water. Police quickly become their own gangs. Ironically, some "police gangs" restored order better than any police agency could. Some still tried to uphold law and order, until law and order and whoever believes such left the state. By 2032, LAPD was known for being the largest death squad in the world. Justice comes out of AR-15 barrels, it is widely believed by many officers. 

But, people never suffer equally. By the end of the bankruptcy, private groups has gone richer than ever. The cyberattacks left the world's internet in ruins, and profit awaits anyone who can restore it. The technology sector grew to enormous proportions and is now the only thing that keeps the state alive. Of course this also means they have a say in everything political. Quickly, the cities are split into fiefdoms controlled by tech barons. The book "Gilded Apocalypse" vividly described the way the fiefdoms fuction. Law is privately owned, the CEOs are the lords and a all-powerful enclave decides everything that happens. Freedom without democracy, such was the affair. The Federal Government meanwhile is too occupied with the chaos and economic turmoil to look. 

When de Kuiper Even unfolded, teleevangelists quickly began calling it the modern day destruction of Sodom. Maybe they are right. 
