# Special Hazards
Toxic fumes: Sometimes when the wind goes wrong, it blows things from deep California, very bad things. Gas masks can effectively block most kind of fumes. Exposure equals inhaling cyanide gas. Detectors are installed in areas prone to such fumes. The toxic fumes are common occurances in western part of "Yellow Zone". 
Spores: Spores of parasitic plants in deep california. A normal fitness check upon one minute of exposure to determine infection. The infection takes 3 days for symptom to show. There are no special medicine against such infection, but given copious amount of rest and hospital condition most people can survive the infection. The symptoms include coughing, dizziness and weight loss, this will progress into acute chest pain and then organ damage. A round of fitness test everyday to determine whether or not symptom progress. If a patient dies from the disease the adolescent plant will grow from the deceased patient's body after three days, at the fourth day it will start emitting spore. The plant is harmful to most lifeforms). Gas masks and regular surgical mask can effectively prevent the effect of the spores
Brain-Scorching: A very uncommon type of psionics attack. Most victims will lose their sanity, the few who recovered tend to be traumatized for life. That's what happend to the men of Charlie Company, Task Force [REDACTED]. There is no form of protection against brain scorching available at the department of forestry. But brain-scorching is a very rare phenomenon for Yellow Zone. (the hazard will only occur when players poke their head into grander scheme of things) 
# Living & Upkeep
Economic collapse: US economy is going downhill already before "the incident".  The collapse of satellite communication due to the orbital war of 2028 ruined whatever internet industry there was. The burst of the internet bubble sent California spiraling down. The blackouts caused by cyber operations during the war also ruined what's left of American power grids. However, you cannot stop "progress", by 2033, most destroyed communication satellites have been recovered or replaced with high-altitude balloons. It seems like Californian economy is finally recovering. Then "the incident" started. The reason Californian economy recovered is largely due to a greater specialization of economy into IT sector. The state becomes utterly reliant on technology and cities, everyone else has already packed up and left during the "war year" of 2030. And when the incident destroyed half of the state, no amount of tech sector can save the state. 
Refugee crisis: Convoys upon convoys of refugees arrived at every village, town, and city. There are just too many mouths to feed. Breadlines are set up, desperados rob, loot and then dies. You can buy all that one need on the black market, if you know the right person. Many refugees are living a life that is even worse than the worst days of Great Depression (think of Steinbeck's "The Grapes of Wrath", but worse). 
Militarized Police: The "War Year" of 2030 completely turned US policing into a killing machine (think of Brazilian BOPE or the average Ready Or Not player). The Police system has become a holy trinity of Judge, Jury, and Executioner. The Taiwan War of 2027-2028 further catalyzed this change as the army and marines began sending surpluses to the police system. Many local SWAT teams even have FPV drones around, and they don't usually take prisoners.  
Who gets the gun, gets the bucks: Most instruments of state violence still receives a good paycheck, the more morally abhorrent their actions are, the more money they get. 
Modern slavery: With so many desperate refugees around, it is very easy to sweet talk one into places that no one can get out of. 
Hunger crisis?: Thankfully American agriculture is still kicking, so most people still won't starve to death. The problem, as always, lies in distribution of food. 
Most things that are not related to survival such as basic food and clothing have inflated price value, the feds have artificially controlled the food price. Blackouts are frequent in refugee camps. 
# GM Bookkeeping
# Loot and logistics
# Encounters and Field combat
